- [Instructor] Now that we've covered
some of the main concepts behind Gradle,
let's use it to build the room service project
in our land and hotel application.
We currently have the source code for the project,
but it's not set up to build with a tool like Gradle.
To help us with that, we can use the Spring Initializer
found at start.spring.io.
It's a web-based tool that can help us quickly launch
a new spring project that builds with Gradle or Maven.
All we need to do is provide a bit of information
about our project.
So I'm going to indicate that we'll be using Gradle
to build our project.
And then I'm going to provide a group ID
of com.linkedin.javacd.
Next, for the artifact ID,
I'm going to type room-service,
and then I'm going to go down here
and adjust the package name
to remove the room service suffix,
so it will just be com.linkedin.javacd.
Next, let's add some dependencies
that our project will require.
So, just click on this button
and then type Spring Web,
that's our first dependency we'll need.
We'll also need the actuator,
which will provide us some metrics about our project.
And then we can include Spring Data JPA.
And then finally, the H2 embedded database.
Once you've provided this information
to the Spring Initializer, click on this button
to download a zip file that contains all the files
for the project.
So I'll just go ahead, click on OK,
and then I'm going to navigate to our downloads directory
where I'll find that zip file.
Here I'm just going to extract it
and then I'll copy the room service folder.
Now I'm going to navigate back
to our exercise files directory,
where I'm going to overlay the folder
on top of the existing room service directory.
So here I'll merge in the new files,
then I'm going to overwrite the get ignore file.
And then finally, I'm going to skip
overriding the source directory
because we already have the code
for the microservice within our project.
Okay, let's head over to the terminal
and take a peek at our project now.
You'll notice that inside the project,
there's the Gradle wrapper, so we can use that to build.
Spring also provided the build script.
We see the build.gradle file there.
Let's take a peak at the build script they provided.
You'll notice that the build script includes a few plugins.
The first is the spring boot plugin,
which will provide some tasks
for packaging our spring application.
The dependency management plugin will help us
get the right versions of our library
so we can keep them all aligned.
And then finally, the Java plugin
is going to help us with things
like compiling our source code for the project.
Within the dependency section,
you'll also notice that some starter dependencies were added
that aligned to those we entered on the Spring Initializer.
These will help us quickly add the new projects
into our application and provide some default configurations
that get us up and running quickly.
Let's take a look at this another way
by using the task, task.
This is going to show us some of the tasks
that were added into our project by the spring boot plugin.
If we scroll up, you can see a few of them.
There they are.
The most important of these tasks is the bootJar task.
It's what's going to help build the executable jar
that contains the embedded web server.
So it's going to package everything into that one archive
that we can use to launch our application.
Okay, let's go ahead and we'll use the Gradle wrapper
to build our project.
There we can see Gradle pulling down the dependencies
required for our build.
Looks like it's starting to do some compilation,
and there we can see the build completed successfully.
Let's take a look at what was built.
So I'm going to write out the structure of our build folder.
And there you see our executable jar
was placed inside the libs directory.
The executable jar contains everything we need
to launch the application.
So if we navigate into that directory,
we can just go ahead and use plain old Java
to launch the application.
So I'll type java -jar,
then I'm going to set our spring profile
to the local profile,
and then we just need to provide the name of the jar file.
There's our executable jar.
All right, let's go ahead, we'll kick off this command
and that will launch our microservice.
There we can see it's up and running and accepting traffic.
So now we've seen how to build an executable jar
for a spring boot application with Gradle.
You'll notice how easy it is to get up and running
when we package our modern Java applications in this format.
So let's move on to the next chapter
to see how it's done with Maven.